calculix/README.md, before:

CalculiX Dockerfile
===================

This is a Dockerfile for Ubuntu + CalculiX + python-minimal.

current configuration
---------------------

-   based on [ubuntu:16.04](https://hub.docker.com/r/library/ubuntu/)
-   Installed using [CalculiX](http://www.calculix.de/) version 2.12 (multi-threaded version, see the notes below under )
-   `unical` is from <http://www.calculixforwin.com/> (`CalculiXLauncher-03beta2-64bit-linux/bin/`)
-   The current version is tagged as parallelWorks/calculix:v2.12 on [docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/parallelworks/calculix).

Usage
-----

### Building the docker:

-   Building the docker requires unpacking the `ccx-212-patch-PW.tgz` file. After unpacking remove the `ccx-212-patch-PW.tgz` file from the directory to make the docker images a bit smaller.
-   Build the docker image by running this command:

    ``` example
    docker build -t ubuntu16-ccx2p12 . 
    ```

### Running the docker

-   This command starts the docker and mounts the current directory to docker and deletes the docker container after exit:

    ``` example
    docker run --rm -i -t -v `pwd`:`pwd` -w `pwd` -u $(id -u):$(id -g) parallelworks/calculix:v2.12  /bin/bash 
    ```

-   A copy of the CalculiX source files are under `/opt/ccx-212-patch-PW/`
-   The CalculiX and CalculiX GraphiX executables (`ccx_2.12`, and `cgx_2.12`) are added to the path (`/usr/bin`)
-   To run CalculiX using multi-threads set the following variables:

    ``` example
    np=X
    export OMP_NUM_THREADS=$np
    export CCX_NPROC_RESULTS=$np # for subroutine calcs
    export CCX_NPROC_EQUATION_SOLVER=$np
    export NUMBER_OF_CPUS=$np
    ```

    where `X` is the number of threads. By default CalculiX runs with 1 CPU.

Installing CalculiX (multi-threads):
------------------------------------

We followed the directions for installing CalculiX Multi-Thread on Ubuntu from [How To Install CalculiX 2.6 Multi-Thread On Ubuntu](http://www.libremechanics.com/?q=node/9). The file `ccx-212-patch-PW.tgz` already includes the additional libraries (`Spooles 2.2`, `ARPACK` and `ARPACK PATCH`) with the suggested changes to the source code and makefiles in the link above. The remaining steps (i.e., for compiling `ARPACK` and `Spooles`) can be found in the `Dockerfile`.

**Note** If you are trying to get the `ccx-212-patch-PW.tgz` file and compile elsewhere, make sure you update the `home` variable in `ccx-212-patch-PW/ARPACK/ARmake.inc` to the root of the `ARPACK` source tree (Top level of ARPACK directory)

Commit message:

Added a Dockerfile to CalculiX with root as the default login user

calculix/README.md, after:

CalculiX Dockerfile
===================

This is a Dockerfile for Ubuntu + CalculiX + python-minimal.

current configuration
---------------------

-   based on [ubuntu:16.04](https://hub.docker.com/r/library/ubuntu/)
-   Installed using [CalculiX](http://www.calculix.de/) version 2.12 (multi-threaded version, see the notes below under )
-   `unical` is from <http://www.calculixforwin.com/> (`CalculiXLauncher-03beta2-64bit-linux/bin/`)
-   The current version is tagged as parallelWorks/calculix:v2.12 on [docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/parallelworks/calculix).

Usage
-----

### Building the docker:

-   Building the docker requires unpacking the `ccx-212-patch-PW.tgz` file. After unpacking remove the `ccx-212-patch-PW.tgz` file from the directory to make the docker images a bit smaller.
-   Build the docker image by running this command:

    ``` example
    docker build -t ubuntu16-ccx2p12 . 
    ```

-   To build a docker with `root` as the default login user copy `Dockerfile_rootUser` to `Dockerfile`.

### Running the docker

-   This command starts the docker and mounts the current directory to docker and deletes the docker container after exit:

    ``` example
    docker run --rm -i -t -v `pwd`:`pwd` -w `pwd` -u $(id -u):$(id -g) parallelworks/calculix:v2.12  /bin/bash 
    ```

-   A copy of the CalculiX source files are under `/opt/ccx-212-patch-PW/`
-   The CalculiX and CalculiX GraphiX executables (`ccx_2.12`, and `cgx_2.12`) are added to the path (`/usr/bin`)
-   To run CalculiX using multi-threads set the following variables:

    ``` example
    np=X
    export OMP_NUM_THREADS=$np
    export CCX_NPROC_RESULTS=$np # for subroutine calcs
    export CCX_NPROC_EQUATION_SOLVER=$np
    export NUMBER_OF_CPUS=$np
    ```

    where `X` is the number of threads. By default CalculiX runs with 1 CPU.

Installing CalculiX (multi-threads):
------------------------------------

We followed the directions for installing CalculiX Multi-Thread on Ubuntu from [How To Install CalculiX 2.6 Multi-Thread On Ubuntu](http://www.libremechanics.com/?q=node/9). The file `ccx-212-patch-PW.tgz` already includes the additional libraries (`Spooles 2.2`, `ARPACK` and `ARPACK PATCH`) with the suggested changes to the source code and makefiles in the link above. The remaining steps (i.e., for compiling `ARPACK` and `Spooles`) can be found in the `Dockerfile`.

**Note** If you are trying to get the `ccx-212-patch-PW.tgz` file and compile elsewhere, make sure you update the `home` variable in `ccx-212-patch-PW/ARPACK/ARmake.inc` to the root of the `ARPACK` source tree (Top level of ARPACK directory)
